>> Scott Moss: How's it going, everybody?
And welcome to Intermediate Next.js,
I'm your instructor Scott Moss.
I've been fortunate enough to kinda been
there in the early days when a lot of
these frameworks were
coming to fruition and
worked with some of the teams
that created these frameworks.
So I've just been involved on the low
level, early on and even now in my career,
I'm still involved as much as I can.
And then when it comes to Next.js,
I've been there since day one,
I love the Vercel team.
I've been using them since they
were called now, and then Zeit, and
then now Vercel.
And Next.js has pretty much been my go-to
framework before it was recommended on
the React docs.
So I'm kinda OG Next.js.
And this course is just like a further
extension on the intro course of
our time talk.
If you haven't checked out that intro
course, and you're looking to get
started the Next.js, highly recommend
checking that one out first.
Because this one is expecting you
just know a little bit about Next.js.
We do get into the weeds
here a little bit.
But if you haven't paying attention to
anything Next.js related, you know that
they've had some major updates in
the last year and a half on their side.
But also because there were a lot
of downstream changes from React.
Even with the new React version 19
coming out, there's a bunch going on.
So a combination of those things,
the Vercel team decided
to create some somewhat
controversial features, I would say.
I mean, because they were
just hugely breaking changes.
But I think once you learn the patterns,
and you adopt them, you come to realize
the beauty and why they made those changes
and how you can take advantage of them.
So in this course,
I wanna talk about that, right?
There are a lot of unsaid patterns
that I've learned from using Next.js
in production for
some time now that aren't in any docs.
Some of them are my opinions and
things like that, but
a lot of them are just what the community
have developed over time since some
of these new features have come out.
Let's walk through some of
the resources of the course and
kinda just get our bearings,
and then we'll hop into it.
So first things first is,
there's a repo here or my GitHub.
My Github is this.
It's named after my son, Hendrixer,
and the course is intermediate-nextjs.
So fork and clone down that repo.
In the read me,
you'll find a link to the course notes.
So these are the notes
that we'll be following,
I'm just gonna hop into the session 0,
talk about the intro here a little bit.
Just to recap of what Next.js is, again,
I'm assuming you've at least built
a hello world with Next.js,
hopefully, with the app directory.
If you haven't built anything with the app
directory, that's fine if you have
experience with the pages directory,
but I won't be going over.
I won't be doing a tour of, here's every
single thing with the app directory,
that's gonna be in the intro course.
So I walk through that thoroughly, I hold
your hand and walk you through that.
But this one is just assuming you've
at least built something with the app
directory.
But I think if you do have extensive
experience with the pages,
you'll probably be fine here,
just ask questions along the way.
So Next.js framework on top of
a framework built by Vercel.
It's basically, I like to describe
it as the rails for React.
It's just a bunch of
opinions baked into React.
And if you go to the React Docs
as far as getting started,
it's the recommended framework.
It's literally the number
one framework to use.
I think it wasn't even that long ago,
where they recommended
use create React app.
And now, I don't think they
mentioned that anywhere.
It's like at the bottom sermon,
we also have this thing called CRH.
Maybe if you wanna check that out,
but for the most part,
it's really gonna be Next.js.
And just to see how far
along they've come,
if you just go look on their website and
look at who's using it,
you have copies of all sizes, and, I mean,
OpenAI uses them for so much stuff.
It's just incredible what they've been
able to achieve with the framework and
such a fragmented landscape when
it comes to front-end JavaScript.
So I'm still just impressed that
they're able to do that, and
I'm just a big fan of it.
So here's some of the topics
we're gonna cover.
>> Scott Moss: It's me just spitting out a
random list of all the things that I know
we're gonna be talking about.
So server actions and mutations,
so if you've tried to use those.
I know in my intro course,
server actions and mutations,
you had to enable them because
they were not enabled by default.
And I think in that course,
I said, I don't use these.
And it wasn't because it was experimental.
It was cuz I just couldn't
find a good use case for them.
I was like, why would I do this?
I could just use a route handler,
okay, that is not the case anymore.
I pretty much always use server actions
and mutations, now you'll see why.
And rarely do I use the route handlers for
a lot of things.
We'll talk about form actions,
which are really cool.
Some special hooks that come with that,
transition hooks.
Middleware, which is not really new to
Next.js 13 plus, but it's very useful when
you think about different environments
like Edge and things like that.
How to do things like protecting
your routes with authentication,
it's way different.
Server component data fetching,
caching server components data,
memorizing server side data calls,
caching revalidation, streaming and
suspense error handling, parallel routing,
route matching and a lot more.
There really is just a lot in this course,
this might be one of the most
extensive courses I've taught.
So it's gonna be a lot packed into
this one, so if you're looking in
the looking for a wide net of
covering things, this is the course.
We're talking about the prerequisites,
you know JavaScript, you know React,
you build some things in Next.js.
As far as the format, it's pretty much
similar to how I teach most of my courses.
I'll introduce a concept, I'll talk about
it, most of it will be in the notes.
I typically kinda wanna make sure I'm
saying the same thing that the creators
are saying, but in my own words.
So most of those lecture notes are just my
interpretation, what the docs are saying,
and then from my experience.
But for the most case, a lot of that
information is gonna be on the docs.
And then I kinda walk through
that interpretation of, yeah,
this is what this means.
Here's some gotchas, stuff like that.
And then we apply that to
something practical, and
then we just do that on repeat, until we
finish the things we wanna talk about.
Yeah, before we get into the course, so
let me show you what you're gonna be
building so
[LAUGH] you know what's happening.
So we're gonna be building an event
app where you can make events and
have attendees, RSVP and things like that.
It's called party with a D.
So that's what we're
[LAUGH] gonna be building.
Right now, here's the sign-in form,
we need to figure out a couple
things to enable this.
So I'm just gonna sign in with an account
that I think I have already, let me see.
Cool, yeah, here we go.
So you get to this dashboard.
This dashboard is just like a combination
of a bunch of stuff that kinda shows you
your current RSVS that you have,
the latest events that you created and
what their statuses are, and
then total attendees across
all your events as a number.
So this is quite interesting
how we're gonna make this.
I'm very excited to explore all of this.